Good.
We will now tell some stories, Sari stories,
and each story is such a proof of the love of Shrimataji for each one of her children.
It's so beautifully worth to hear all these stories, and it's only the Divine who can handle such situations.
So,
my first story of Sari was in 1985 in Vaitarna.
It was the announcement of the first year of the weddings, the first year of the weddings that took place in Ganapati Pule.
And when I heard my name and the name of my husband, we went to see, to meet.
We didn't look at each other, we just said Namaskar.
And near was a big table with a lot, a lot of Sarvis.
And Shrimataji was here, and near Shrimataji was Gregoire.
And Gregoire said, a Sarvis for this man, please, Shrimataji.
And in one second, Shrimataji too picked up a Sarvis out of these mountains of Sarvis.
And this is the Sarvis she picked up. Can we see it?
Yes, don't hold it. Just hold it a little bit further away from it. Perfect. That's perfect.
And the Sarvis has the colour of the earth, you see, and a nice border.
And my husband, Shrimataji gave the Sarvis to my husband.
And my husband said, what should I do with it?
He meant, should I keep it or should I give it to you?
And me in my brain, just a lot of thoughts.
It was, but I bought already my wedding Sarvis, and I don't have any money to pay this new Sarvis.
So my first sentence to my husband was, you have to pay it.
This is the story, the first one.
The second story was in Poland in the 90s, in the hotel in Warsaw where Shrimataji was staying.
I was with her in her room, and suddenly she gave me this Sarvis.
A red one with a border, blue one.
And when I saw the Sarvis, I was completely moved.
And I looked at her and I said, Shrimataji, you have so many children all over the world.
How do you know that pink is my favourite, not pink, red is my favourite colour?
And she just smiled and looked at me and she said,
you see, you are my children and I know everything about you.
And I heard this situation again, she was talking about this situation in a puja who was following afterwards.
And in this puja she said yes, and this lady, she was so moved to see that I knew the colour of her Sarvis.
And finally, the last story that I got from Shrimataji.
It was in 2009 when Shrimataji came to Vienna in our new ashram.
Of course we were happy to have her in Vienna, but on the other hand it was the time where she was looking sick.
She was in a wheelchair, she didn't interfere like we were used to with her, she was no more talking with us.
It was in a way very sad to see her like this.
So we have this new ashram in Vienna, but since 2006 we have also a new centre, a Sahaj Centre in the centre of Vienna.
And we knew that she will not be able to go there.
So with Steve Jones we prepared an album with the pictures of this centre to show to Shrimataji.
And we could immediately go in her room. So she was sitting near her was Sir Siphi.
Sir Siphi was holding this album and showing Shrimataji the pictures.
And Steve was just explaining how it is, which programmes and so giving explanations.
And in the moment where he said, and Shrimataji, this centre is mostly run by ladies.
In this moment she looked at me, she smiled to me and she did like this with her head.
Later on Shrimataji was giving presents to people.
So I got this sari, this red, not red, green sari with a border, gold and so on.
My dear, just hold it up again without moving it and a little bit further back from the camera.
Like this?
Yes, higher.
Perfect.
You see, like this?
Yes.
Yeah.
But the story is not finished because some months later I met a yogini who told me,
I'm glad to see you Christine, because you see, I observed something.
I was looking the video where Shrimataji was giving presents to yogis.
And she said for each present, Sir Siphi took the hand of Shrimataji to put it on the present
to be vibrated.
She said, but for your sari, Shrimataji immediately put her hand on your sari without the help of Sir Siphi.
And for me, it was clear that it's not destined in a way to me.
Before we presented this new center, Postgasse, and for me it was this delicate, this great
way of Shrimataji to give blessings to this center.
This center now is running till 2006, every day of the week, without interruption.
We have programs, music, German, English, Russian, we have workshops, we have other
meetings.
I mean, it's just running, the vibrations are so strong still since 2006 and flowing.
And this is just a blessing of Shrimataji.
Jai Shrimataji.
Christine, I wonder if you ever thought of donating that last sari to the center itself?
Oh, a photo?
No, donating that sari to the center.
Please?
I wondered if you ever thought of donating that sari to the center, to the Sahaj Center?
No, because I was, how to say, taking,
Oh, right, you'd already worn it.
You'd already worn it before.
Yeah, I wore it before.
Before you'd heard that, before you realized.
I didn't notice this, you see.
Right.
It just some months later, a yogini told me this.
I didn't notice it.
But then you realized, yeah.
Yeah, so I wore it already.
Wow.
Christine, the beautiful, beautiful stories.
I'm just going to stop, pause the recording a second.
Yes.
So, Dara, thank you for sharing your stories with us next.
You know, I wasn't going to even I thought, Oh, you know, I actually don't have saris
at mother personally.
I mean, I do.
I just want to share it just for me, like when I first came to Sahaja Yoga, I found
myself about a month later in Ro Ma Shram.
And I had no clothes because all the clothes I had were weren't appropriate for Sahaja
Yoga.
And so I was a bit perplexed.
What what should I what can I wear?
I had nothing almost.
And Jane, dear Jane Marlowe.
She said to me, Oh, Dara, it's no problem, because then she brought me to this room.
This is the old Ro Ma Shram, the first one, and she brought me to this room and this room.
The whole wall of it was filled with saris.
She said, anyways, we're to wear saris every day.
And, and, and, and she handed me a sari and showed me how to put it on.
And I fell in love with with the saris.
It's, it's something fabulous for me.
It's something I don't know this beauty of like Sri Draupadi being covered in this protection
of mother.
And it's one piece of fabric.
And yet it's it's the each piece of fabric is such a gorgeous artwork and fold it up.
It's like it's like surrounding the whole universe.
It's just every woman looks beautiful in a sari doesn't matter if you're thin your your
any shape.
A woman just look like queens in the sari.
And, and for me, this is I just can thank mother, just that graciousness that when you
put a sari on that, you walk differently.
I just I just love I just love the I love saris.
So I don't have any saris left from from Rama's from that was this was 3637 years ago, but
I do have my we had the India tour, we were given saris by mother and these are the ones
the two ones I have left.
I just show the border the cotton is super thin now.
But there's just these beautiful, beautiful borders on it.
And this, this the colors, it's just something fantastic.
And I always when I'm looking for a sari to buy, I always try to find saris with these
very traditional, just very simple, one color with with this beautiful borders.
And yet when you wrap it around, it's just so elegant.
It's so nice.
I'll tell I'll tell the the one of the later stories of I was in India, I had the opportunity
to be in India for three months this winter and this past winter and and we I stayed in
Alibaba and and the mummy there she she gave me this, this beautiful sari.
This beautiful sari top piece.
And as a gift when I left.
And so when we went, we went to Delhi, and we stayed at Nirmal Dharm and it was it was
February and it was literally ice cold there there was there's no heating obviously.
And you walk you would go out the building and walk across the grass and the grass was
it was ice.
It was literally ice on the grass.
And so for the morning meditation at six, so, so the last morning, I was, I was like,
I'm just not gonna bother just too cold because you're just sitting there shivering.
You can't really meditate properly because it's just so cold.
But so Manfred left to go meditate and then I stayed and then I thought, Oh, shoot, I'm
just gonna go.
So I quickly put on a Punjabi and I opened the door to go out and I couldn't leave.
I couldn't go out of the door.
Something was stopping me.
So I, I thought, What is it?
And I thought, Okay, you have to put a sari on.
So I took this sari and I put it on and and it's it's super thin.
It's for summertime.
And I put my under my silk underwear underneath coat and jacket and sweaters and shawls and
trudged across the grass and got there as soon as as soon it was as it was time almost
for RT.
They always have RT at the end of the meditation.
And I walked in and I sat down and namaskar.
And, and I got up and somebody was standing there and said, Can you please do RT to mother.
So in Nirmal Dham when you do RT for mother, you go in to this, there's a glass enclosure
around mother Swayambhu.
And you enter this and they give you everything and then they close the door behind you and
you can't hear anything.
You can't hear a thing outside.
And they're playing the recording of the RT.
And you can't hear that you can't hear the planes crossing overhead or anything.
So basically, it's just whoever is in there doing RT and mother and you're you're at the
end, there's mother's Swayambhu and, and mother's silver padukas, and all these beautiful
flowers and then you're standing with the tray there and singing by yourself RT.
And it's just the most incredible experience.
And I was like, Thank you, whoever, whichever deity wouldn't let me leave the room without
putting a sari on because they only let people with saris on do the RT.
So, yes, thank you.
I can't see anybody.
It's a bit disconcerting.
Do you think everybody can put their
Unknown Speaker I mean, Dara, it's part of the recording
requirements, really, okay, because it and yeah, it's just easier for the recording of
people's videos are turned off.
Okay, I know it's very difficult for the person talking because you kind of talking into a
vacuum.
Yes.
But that was a beautiful, beautiful story.
Unknown Speaker Yes.
There's this.
This, there's when when when Jeeva, my first child was born, this is 1991.
And Manfred went on India tour, and he came back with seven saris for me, from the one
mother always had saris that she had purchased, and she, she would then have them there to
sell and, and so Manfred went and bought seven saris.
And each one was like one was more beautiful than the other.
And I was just like, in shock seven saris.
And then there was this sorry, there was this sorry, which is very simple, very somehow
compared to the other ones that had no designs on it, just very simple and plain.
And I just kind of put that one on the side.
And we were living with another couple then and and and Ganga she said to me, Did you
see that blue and red?
Sorry.
And I because she had been on the tour.
Also, I said, Yes, these other ones are so beautiful.
She said, Do you know, this are these saris mother had very few of them, she said, and
nobody bought them because they were so expensive.
And, and the next day, mother got really angry at all the husbands.
And they said, You have to buy these for your wife.
These are the most these are the most precious saris.
It's been our silk.
I don't know if that says means anything to anybody unless they're Indian.
But it's, it's, it's a very special silk, hand woven, and the border has real gold in
it.
And unfortunately, it's all it's all shredded.
It's so old now.
I can't wear it anymore.
But I just have it there.
I hope I don't know what to do with saris that you can't wear anymore.
But it's precious.
These are one's mother's mother has specially chosen.
And there was also in, oh, I don't have it here.
Like Christie.
Oh, there it is.
This this sorry.
It was in in by Tarna also like Christine, we had already been married for one year.
And she was choosing this the the the saris for the brides, which I wasn't anymore.
But then she said, you know, the other ladies can come and I'll choose them.
Sorry.
So I went I was there looking at saris and I picked up this bright pink sorry.
And she mattered.
She came and said no, no, no, no, no, no.
I was held was I 2728.
Like nowadays you were shocked is like, and she said, and she picked this sorry out for me.
Again, I can't wear it anymore because it's so worn through.
She said, older ladies need to wear they need to wear lighter colors.
And, you know, I was 28.
And I was a bit in shock.
Not because I didn't think I was older.
But I mean, actually, in those days in Sahaja Yoga, we were all with like 2830 the oldest
ones because they were, they were very few.
Like now we're all older.
But in those days, you know, we were I guess with that age, older.
And, but I understood from mother that, that I have that not that I'm an older lady, but
that I have to mature.
And then I'm no longer that I'm no longer young, I'm no longer an unmarried woman that
I have to behave with a certain dignity.
Now.
It was it was it was a very humbling and experience.
And I felt such love and care for mother that she that she somehow taught me like instead
of reprimanding me and saying, you know, you have to, you have to behave differently that
she did it in such a sweet and gentle way by choosing a sorry for me.
And I also love this.
I just I don't know what I mean, he might know what to do with sorry, you can't wear
anymore.
But yes, that one.
It's, it's like, thank you, mother.
And, and, and, and this sorry, was from the saris mother.
It was a Navarachupa in Kibana and mother had just been in Japan.
And she had brought back their polyester saris.
But she brought back these
saris in all different colours.
And yes, she said they're very unique.
So they've got a weave in it and a print on it.
So they're they're really nice.
Sorry.
And yes, I just love saris.
I feel it's that it's that hot.
It's that essence of a womanhood.
When you put a sari on, you feel mother's protection and you feel this
grace.
You walk differently.
It's, it's, I've every time there's an opportunity to wear a sari put one on it.
It's such an honour I feel to be able to use them.
And, and this is the last I just showed you this sorry, because when I was in India, I
was with my sister in law and we were sorry shopping in Delhi and and we just we were
like nearly the whole day in this shop.
And, and I this I just it just so beautiful.
They're just such a work of art.
They sorry.
That's the wrong way around.
Yes.
So it's not for an older lady, I suppose because it's not it's not a light colour, but I do
love it.
And yeah, I was going to take another sorry and there was a young boy was helping us and
I said, No, let me just take this.
Sorry.
It was very simple.
It was a light colour was it was very plain.
And the young boy who was helping us out.
He said, he said to me, he said, You look like the mother in law.
If you buy this, sorry, you're like the mother in law.
And I regret and I, we burst out laughing hysterically because I am actually the mother
in law I was with my I was with the mummy of my daughter in law.
Fine.
Sorry.
So we were we were both laughing hysterically.
And then we told him that I am actually the mother in law.
But she's she she said I should buy the sorry also so and that the other one was boring.
So there you go.
Those are my stories and and thank you for listening.
And yeah, Dara, I know exactly what you mean.
I was just saying somebody the other day that when I wear a sorry,
I walk with a gravity and serenity that I don't have it other times.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's, I wish you know, like that that Draupadi and and when Trump was president the last time,
actually, I prayed that that the woman of America can be clothed and mothers all these sorrys that
mothers given she said mother said once that Draupadi probably had all the sorrys that
was protected by all the sorrys that that we've all we've all offered to her during the poojas.
And so I prayed and I pray now that that the women of America and all over the world that
they're they have that protection of the sorry of mothers sorrys around them.
And that that all these horrible men they they they're shocked that they're that they're shocked
by the that that by that Dharma of Sri Sita of Draupadi of Sri Radha of that, that it stuns them
and and they recognize mother it's it's my deep prayer. Yes. So with that, I
Yeah, should we just give a bandana for all the ladies in the world who need that protection?
I feel like yes.
And that the men recognize that all the women are their mothers are their sisters are the queens
and that they bow down before the goddess, the innate goddess.
Then
.
So for the last stories today we go to Padmini.
I'm just going to share first a couple of pictures of Shimashi wearing a certain sari.
Padmini, would you like me to show both before you start talking about them?
Yes, please.
So this is one and this is the other.
Is that okay? I showed them I think. No, did you see them?
I can start now?
Yes, please.
My name is Padmini. I'm from Chiripune. My husband is John Watkins and he's from UK.
We are married in 1988.
But I have a long time waiting to come to UK. In the end, Shri Mataji asked to come to Kabela.
I was very lucky to stay with Shri Mataji's home in Kabela.
We used to live in the Mezineh ground floor.
That time I got the chance to make Shri Mataji's lunch, dinner and breakfast.
And serving her breakfast every day.
And Shri Mataji told us before you cook our food, always meditate.
Kyutbandana and Kundalini. Then you start the food.
We used to do the same thing.
And it was such a joyful early morning.
We would serve Shri Mataji tea after the breakfast.
And Shri Mataji would look like she's your friend.
You're feeling so joyful at the start of your days.
And one day Shri Mataji showed me how to make her bed.
How to make the hospital. She showed me how to make it.
And it just looked like she showed your mother and your small child.
How to show each thing.
And such a feeling with Shri Mataji.
Just feeling you are really lucky with God.
And all that time spending with her.
Really, really good.
And one day we had to go to the picnic.
Go to Dalia with Shri Mataji's grandchildren and Shri Mataji.
And that time I'm just alone in the kitchen.
And she came in the kitchen and she said,
Today the children they love is to the paratha and keema.
It looks like minced lamb they call.
And she showed me how to cook it.
The lamb fat she's taking out all the fat first.
And after that all the garam masala is clove, cinnamon, cardamom and ginger and garlic.
And do it cook and put the onion and then after the keema.
And it's such a lovely.
And she's holding the pot with her hand.
And I said, Shri Mataji, it's a very hot pot.
She said, No, no. It's okay for me.
And then she cooked and then give into my hand.
She said, Just try to taste and it so look like when I have this food, my Kundalini just come up.
Unbelievable.
Adi Shakti coming and showing cooking this thing.
And we went to picnic Dalia and we went to the small river.
They really, really enjoyed that day.
Such an amazing time.
And another thing.
One day, Shri Mataji wash her hair and she said, I should dry her hair with ajwain smoke.
You know, they put some charcoal and they put ajwain.
And drying her hair look like so well with her hair.
But really, really careful in them because sometimes they really spark ajwain thing.
And unbelievable that experience.
Such a lovely, tremendous thing.
And one day, Shri Mataji asked, saying to me, I got some special saree for you.
And she went inside and she got the saree for me.
And we like to see the photograph open.
I can show you.
You can see in open the things.
This is the saree.
This is the pink part, Shri Mataji.
She's wearing.
She needs to have a camera on you.
Yeah.
You can see?
No, no. She can't. They can't because the photo is there.
Let me just, let me just stop sharing now.
Ah, this is the, and this is the border here.
Yes.
And she said, Shri Mataji said, she wear long time this sarees.
And very beautiful cotton and beautiful design inside.
All are in pink color inside.
You see properly?
Yes, we can see properly.
John, if you just hold it still, it's best done.
Yes.
Beautiful.
And she wear in Australia and seaside.
She went that time.
And so this saree.
John, can you show the pink side once more?
Yes.
Beautiful.
And she gave me matching shawl also.
The sarees matching shawl and
cardigan also.
This is a shawl.
Yes, we can see it beautifully.
And this is a cardigan.
That's cardigan.
It's matching all the stuff.
Wow.
Yeah.
Kept you walking to Bella during the winter there.
And the cardigan, I use the shawl and some few time I saw it, but shawl I use, but cardigan I just keep it as a stage of things, you know.
It's a special thing, you know.
And.
It's a really tremendous thing, you know, she watches this given thing.
And in Kabela, you can see she matters every day.
Even after the puja, after puja finish, she used to come inside the Kabela house and wash off the feet and all the kung kung water, all the vibratory water.
And you can use this water to put your sasara around.
You know, sometimes you can put it in the face and such a amazing, tremendous time in Kabela.
And we are so lucky.
My husband used to work in Kabela.
All the angels, all he done in Kabela.
And one day, Shri Mataji looking at that angels, you know, one of the UK saw Jogida and she said, call him, say, can you see the angels?
And he said, yeah.
And she said, look at these angels.
John Vorkison put his angel and still have love come from these angels.
You can see.
And that story is very nice.
And if you go to Kabela, I can see the three big angels entrance that's made my husband.
And.
And we have my first baby born in Kabela, close to Novi Lugera Hospital.
And Shri Mataji hold her when she turned this old.
And Shri Mataji gave her name as a Menaxi because her eyes look like fish.
And she said one of the goddesses name.
And she said, this is a very, very old soul born.
And my daughter is so lucky when Shri Mataji hold her.
It's such an amazing time.
Now, we used to use go to all fujas and.
And although after the fujas, see the shivaji every single day.
It's a really tremendous time.
I saw, we are so lucky.
Shri Mataji our mother and attending the fuja and enjoying each other's really, really.
Thank you for Shri Mataji.
Thank you Shri Mataji.
Can I just add that, you know, we had a difficult time.
John, John, could you just move into the picture then as you're talking?
Yes, slowly.
At a difficult time, the British government refused Padmini a visa and Shmash's attention was on it for a long time.
So we had a very difficult time.
After about five years, it took before we were actually together and it was quite a tapasya.
But at the end of it, we had all those blessings.
I got to work in Kabbalah and Padmini eventually came to Kabbalah.
So the Divine knows the right time because there were just so many blessings at the end of it all when we were finally together.
The Divine knows the right time for everything and we both knew that it was meant to be.
It was just wonderful.
Anyway, Shri Mataji.
And thank you Shri Mataji for giving us as a soldier of life and all over the world, brothers and sisters.
Thank you very much.
Jai Shri Mataji.
I think when I came back to the UK, I got a shwajee call one day, a massage of feet.
Very tremendous, amazing vibration.
And in the healing house, one day night, Shri Mataji and me and Shri Mataji's granddaughter, we were just watching a movie.
Shri Mataji massaged the granddaughter's head massage and I used to do Shri Mataji's feet.
We were watching the whole night as a Hindu movie.
And some in the movie, something happened and I was feeling guilty.
Shri Mataji said, why are you feeling guilty?
Because Shri Mataji just knows one thing.
And the whole night, I was doing this massage of the feet and talking with her.
It was such a joyful time.
Wow.
And then I feel, I have massaged Shri Mataji's feet, but I just said,
before coming to healing, I went to the Shuddhi camp.
I just said I like Shri Mataji's body massage.
And then Shuddhi camp, she asked me to do her back massage and everything.
I just, you feel like you're in the field and how joyful is it?
Such an amazing time.
You care so, healing and Shuddhi camp.
And it just, when Shri Mataji moved from Shuddhi camp to healing house,
such a tremendous joy for her.
She looked like such a small child.
And in the healing house, in her bathroom, John put all angels and she's so happy.
Showing to Mr. CP, say look at these angels.
And she just, you never see how her face looked like.
Full of star and look like, just, I don't know how to work to explain her.
So just look like Christmas, such a joyful time.
She moving in the healing house, you know.
Wow.
Just saying that we don't have a cabinet to catch her, you know.
But I feel this memory, all this thing, you know.
Just unbelievable.
John has lots and lots of experience.
Anyone, John writes a book recently.
It's a very nice book.
It's all his experience about the spend time with Shri Mataji.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much, Admini, for this.
I'm going to stop the recording now.
But thank you to all, Shri of you ladies who have contributed this evening.
It's been wonderful.